非负矩阵分解在交通数据挖掘上的应用

Applying Nonnegative Matrix Factorization on traffic data


[Abstract] Nonnegative matrix is decomposed into feature extraction provides a new 1
method. Because join nonnegative constraints, the result of the decomposition based on nonnegative matrix decomposition to extract the feature vector can reflect the local characteristics of samples, and therefore closer to people's cognitive habits, and highly interpretability and predictability. This article will nonnegative matrix decomposition is applied to traffic data mining, and studies its application in the field of access to information, design the corresponding processing algorithms, improve the treatment effect.
This paper first introduces the existing basic ideas, basic nonnegative matrix decomposition algorithm. Nonnegative matrix decomposition algorithm and then from theory and principal component analysis, singular value decomposition (commonly used feature extraction methods such as comparison, by comparing the summed up based on nonnegative matrix decomposition feature vector extraction by has the characteristics of locality and interpretability. On the basis of theoretical analysis, and then nonnegative matrix decomposition is applied to the field of information retrieval, the study of feature extraction method based on nonnegative matrix decomposition in dealing with traffic applications of data mining.
Algorithm design of this paper is carried out on the vehicle model, the amount per vehicles throughout the day is abstracted as a transport mode, with a 24 d vector to represent a car model, using NMF method after several experiments, the vehicles travel the three basic characteristics: commuting characteristics, company (time) to work back and forth between features, other (mainly) at night. In fact, this kind of vehicles' characteristic is the time characteristics of the vehicle. Further, this paper again with basic vehicle travel mode to fitting a intersection traffic patterns. For the difference intersection traffic patterns can be embodied in a day of vehicles are mainly concentrated in different time period. Through least square fitting, also got different three types of intersections.
